
  The Luwrain project
  README file

   What is Luwrain?
  ------------------

With accessible environment Luwrain blind and visual impaired
persons get one more way to be involved in the incredible world of
information technologies.  Luwrain doesn't take a lot of time to study
and aims to be useful on laptops as well as on usual desktop
computers.  You can treat our new idea as one more solution for
everybody who needs reliable and accessible companion for various
types of work.  The product is designed as new platform for creating
speech-enabled applications with set of standard tools for easy web
access, mail and news reading , etc.

Luwrain is a linux-based system with special type of user interface
constructed on Java technologies.  In contrast with widely popular
screen reading solutions for graphical desktops which actually were
designed for control basically by mouse and other pointing devices,
Luwrain follows special conception offering representation of every
working object from scratch in text form.  That means in Luwrain user
will always spend significantly less time than in an adapted GUI.  We
have created our environment for people with active style of life who
appreciate time economy getting their job done.

In Luwrain Java user space gathers together a number of system
services taken for providing flexible core and good level of
compatibility.  Information exchanging between them is performed
mostly through D-Bus activity.  It brings to a user information about
network structure from Network Manager and transmits commands to
speech server purposed for Text-To-Speech engines manipulating.
Personal user data can be stored in OpenLDAP or in any choice of SQL
server which has proper JDBC interface.  For low-vision users Luwrain
opens full-screen window with all corresponding textual data written
in contrast colours.  That window is drawn by X.org server using
special window manager created as a part of Luwrain project.

Luwrain is a completely Free Software project, no fee is implied, no
restrictions of using and distribution are present, except of cases
explicitly violating the terms of GNU Public License ver. 3 as it was
published by Free Software Foundation.  However, money donations are
still required to help us present our product wider over the world and
introduce it to related social and distribution organizations.  The
team of developers hopes Luwrain can increase the integration of
disabled persons into social life.

   See additional resources:
  ---------------------------

* The official website: http://luwrain.org/
* The set of git repositories: http://github.com/luwrain/

Some further project information you can find inside of doc/ directory.
